Welcome back all.
So today we're going to
go ahead and
play around
between...
we're going to go ahead
and play around
between two structures.
So,
the question now
that I'm going to post
it's going to have a bit of a
a bit of technical
feel to it.
So,
it goes as follows.
Can all instances of a
structure have a joined attribute?
The answer to this question
is yes.
The attribute is called
a static attribute.
And is shared with all the
variables of that structure.
Now if you
did not understand what I
just said or
if you would like to
replay it,
something like that,
feel free but
a far easier thing is
to have a look at the example.
Because I have
created these neat little
definitions
for each one of these segments,
written them out, etc.
But then as I was writing out
the definitions
and the explanations
for all of these,
Along the merry way
I just realized
the same thing that
was a problem for me
would probably be a problem
for a lot of other people.
Dry talk means little.
So let's get into code and let's
see how this actually looks like.
Anyway, we're going to go ahead
and create another structure.
So it's going to be
struct
book
and we shall play around
with it.
You see, code blocks is
kind enough the semicolon at the end.
And now we would include
some different things.
ID.
This will be the ID of the book.
And the next one that we should
include will be the name of the book.
Now, name that would be a string.
So, Oops we will
go ahead and
include
String.
Thank you very much!
And now we should do a std::
String. Name.
Here we go.
And we shall also want
the author of the book.
Ok, yet another string. Right?
::
String.
Author.
Awesome, and now. We
would like to have.
Publication date of
this book.
I guess we could create three ints
here right?
Well,
we could.
But
Have a look at this.
Date.
Published.
; in the end.
And down below we will
have a book count.
So, I don't know,
static int
count
Ok, in the structure book,
we can note two interesting facts.
The attribute published is
of type Date,
which is a structure.
Here it is.
We've created it,
which means that the structures
can have their own structures
as their attributes.
So, once again,
structures
can have
other structures. So structure Book
has another structure called
Date
as an attribute.
So, look it's an attribute
here.
That's one thing.
And the other thing to note here
is that the attribute count is static.
So
this is a static
attribute. Hmm...
What does that mean.
Basically, it means that
all variables of
type Book
will share the attribute count.
All the variables
of type book
will share
this attribute.
So it doesn't mix up.
You will see soon enough what I
mean by this.
If you can figure it out already.
And I trust that you did.
So,
shall we basically,
let's go ahead and redo this.
And let's go ahead and type in
One tab.
One tab
as before
we will create a variable so
of type book,
So B1.
comma b2
and it's going to be like
b1.id
ID we shall initialize to 0.
B1.
Name
So, the name will be
What shall the name be
Anybody have any bright
ideas for the name of the book.
I want to invent a completely
random name.
Ok, so
Random
Name. I sincerely hope that there
is a book out there with
the name Random name.
If there is this has no connection
to it of whatsoever.
Ok, so
Let's go ahead and
type in
b1.
Author.
This shall be
equal to who shall be the
author of this book.
The author of this book will be
a Random
Random guy
let's say
I don't know someone.
The name of the book is Random Name
and the name of the author
is Random guy.
I know I am created beyond belief.
But hey,
What can you really do about it.
And now we will have
a count,
which is a static.
Which is a static and it is shared
across
all the
variables of type book.
So, it is shared in between B1,
which is a variable of type Book.
And it is shared by b2
which is also a variable of type book.
b1.
count=
1.
So now, let's print out
the count of
book2.
Right?
Why?
Because we have initialized
it to one.
Here you see?
Count has been initialized to 1.
But has been initialized to 1 for b1.
Let's see what happens when we print
out the value for b2.
Take a
If anybody want to take any wild
guesses, feel free to
I'm sure you can make a conclusion
in a rather
easy manner.
So b2
Now you see, we haven't initialized it
for b2 at all anyway
this is just for b1.
So,
b2.
Count
std::
endl
Let's just go ahead and run
it
and see what happens.
Ok.
I seem to have
a problem.
Undefined reference
to book count.
That seems to be a problem.
b1
book here, there's a comma here
There is a semicolon which I'm
notorious for forgetting.
Maybe I'm mispelling it. No way!
No way am I...
that's stupid.
Ok.
Let me just copy paste it.
Maybe
I am.
There's always a chance.
Ok, let's try it one more time
and define reference to book Count.
But the first one is at line
28 and the 2nd one is
at line
30.
Why is it an undefined
reference.
Have I not defined it here?
It is defined.
Right there.
And it's Struct Book.
Let's go ahead and see what the
problem could be.
Ok, so again on line
30 and
here,
What are you supposed is
an urgent find?
Let's go ahead and try it like this,
maybe I am that stupid.
On book2 but
on book2 but
It's the one undefined reference.
No wait, it doesn't matter,
if it's on the same line or not.
Let me go ahead and check with
what the problem is.
It's probably something
absurdly stupid but it's not
just occuring to me at the moment.
Ok, so
I completely forgot about this.
I said it like a couple of moments
ago.
And then I forgot about it.
It didn't see it in my notes here. I
didn't have it.
Anyway,
since this is static,
you will need to
allocate some space for it.
You would need to give it some memory
space in a way.
So, this is what we shall do
in order to reserve some memory for it
and put it in here.
Look, if I for example
If I do this,
and
If I try to compile,
it's not going to work, ok.
But if I just remove
static
and I do this, it will compile
without any problems,
although it's going to give me
some random value here.
However,
actually, you know what,
just take a look at it
one more time.
We are printing b2.count.
We have not initialized it for
b2. And if we run and compile it,
if we build and run it,
we're going to get some completely
random value.
Keep in mind.
Look, this is a completely
random value here but
we have initialized b1 count
we have initialized count for b1.
But not for b2.
And if it is not static,
it's not really shared
between the two.
However, if I make it
static,
I just need to reserve some
memory space for it.
And
then I will,
do a build and run again,
and you see now it's one.
Now, the value is shared
between all the...
clipping.
Ok, so they didn't do
a terrible job.
But still I mean come on.
The value of the variables is shared.
So you have one
and
it's for b2. It's one for b2 as well.
So, the count is shared between the
between b1 and b2.
Anyway, just don't forget about
line22 here in my code where we
basically just reserving some
space for it.
Because it's static so we do it
that way.
Anyway,
the declaration
the usage
you cannot
for example, this shouldn't actually
work in C.
Because of the
Oops.
Because of the static
declaration here. So, you wouldn't be
able to use a static variable
within a structure in
C,
however,
you would be able to use it in
C++.
And this is a C++ program
of course.
I'm pretty sure
about that but. Don't hold my word
to it. Check it for yourselves.
Everything that I say at all times,
and I do believe that this
is the best approach even to
college lectures and to pretty much
any sort of lectures of whatsoever,
take everything with a grain of salt
and
don't take anything at face value.
Just go ahead and check it out
for yourselves and see if it
is really so
or if it is something else.
Or if you can draw your own
conclusions about it.
Here,
we can
basically just
go ahead and do this as well.
What shall we do?
Let's go ahead and type in
b2.
Count and let's go ahead and
change the value.
So, let's change it to I don't know
10.
And now we're going to
be lazy.
And copy this.
Ok
and
this shall be b1.
We haven't changed the value
with b2.
And it's going to be changed for b1 as
well.
Look at it, yup. It is 1
and 10.
And you can basically change it
anyway you want.
So we see that we can have
shared attributes for all variables.
Since these attributes are
not dependent on a variable,
we can access them by
stating them
by stating the name of the
structure,
followed by the scope operator.
So we can access
just with the scope operator
like here,
You see
we have
it here and
that's what we basically
did here and you can do it here
in the code as well,
if you just
type in
Book
::
Count
equals
100.
So, you see
this is also possible
without any problems.
And now you can use either
one of these two.
We can be lazy again and use this.
So, let's go ahead and create
a print out.
So, you see 1 10 100.
No problems.
They're all printed
out there.
They don't even need a variable
to access an attribute
like this if an attribute is static.
Anyway, I would like to apologize for
this small area that I made here.
I completely forgot about that.
the memory space is required.
And that we need to do this.
But,
as I've said,
there are some differences
between
C and C++ in this regard.
My mind just wandered of in
a completely wrong direction.
Anyway, I bid you all farewell.
And hope to see you in the follow up
tutorial where we shall deal
with
arrays that are
made of
structs.
So,
I hope that I have formatted
that right.
We shall deal with arrays
of structs, let's put it like that.
And we'll see how that actually works
out.